we are taking you live to the
international court of justice in the ha
where Israel is defending itself against
accusations of genocide let's listen
inal
obligation
rapael
genci he the world recognized that the
existing legal Lex was simply inqu
capture the devastating evil that the
Holocaust
Unleashed the applicant has now sought
to invoke this
term in the context of Israel's conduct
in a war it did not start and did not
want a war in which Israel is defending
itself against Hamas Palestinian Islamic
Jihad and other terrorist
organizations whose brutality knows no
bounds the civilian suffering in this
war like in all wars is
tragic it is
heartbreaking the harsh realities of the
current hostilities are made especially
agonizing for civilians given hamas's
reprehensible strategy of seeking to
maximize civilian harm to both Israelis
and
Palestinians even as Israel seeks to
minimize
it but as this court has already made
clear the genocide convention was not
designed to address the brutal impact of
intensive hostilities on the civilian
population even when the use of force
raises quote very serious issues of
international law and involves un
enormous suffering and continuing loss
of life end
quote the convention was set apart to
address a malevolent crime of the most
exceptional
severity we live at a time when words
are
cheap in an age of social media and
identity Politics the temptation to
reach for the most outrageous term to
vilify and
demonize has become for many
irresistible but if there is a place
where words should still
matter where truth should still matter
it is surely a court of
law the applicant has regrettably put
before the court a profoundly distorted
factual and legal
picture the entirety of its case hinges
on a deliberately curated
decontextualized and manipulative
description of the reality of current
hostilities South Africa purports to
come to this court in the lofty position
of a guardian of of the interest of
humanity but in delegitimizing Israel's
75e existence in its opening
presentation
yesterday that broad commitment to
humanity rang
Hollow and in its sweeping
counterfactual
description of the Israeli Palestinian
conflict it seemed to erase both Jewish
history and any Palestinian agency or
responsibility indeed
the delegitimization of
Israel since its very establishment in
1948 in the applicant
submissions sounded barely
distinguishable from hamas's own
rejectionist
rhetoric it is unsurprising therefore
that in the applicant's telling both
hamas's responsibility for the situation
in Gaza and the Very Humanity of its
Israeli victims are removed from
view the attempt to weaponize the term
genocide against Israel in the present
context does more than tell the court a
grossly distorted
story and it does more than empty the
word of its unique force and special
meaning it subverts the object and
purpose of the convention itself with
ramifications for all states seeking to
defend themselves against those who
demonstrate
total disdain for life and for the
law Madam president members of the
court on Saturday October 7th a Jewish
religious
holiday thousands of Kamas and other
militants breached Israeli Sovereign
territory by sea land and air invading
over 20 Israeli communities bases and
the site of a music
festival what proceeded
under the cover of thousands of rockets
fired indiscriminately into
Israel was the wholesale Massacre
mutilation rape and Abduction of as many
citizens as the terrorists could find
before Israel's forces repelled
them openly displaying Elation they
tortured children in front of parents
and parents in front of
children burned people including infants
alive and systematically raped and
mutilated scores of women men and
children all told some 12200 people were
butchered that day more than 5,500
maimed and some 240 hostages abducted
including infants entire families
persons with disabilities and Holocaust
Survivors some of whom have since been
executed many of whom have been tortured
sexually abused and starved in
captivity representatives of the
hostages families are in this courtroom
today and we acknowledge their presence
and their boundless
suffering we know of the brutality of
October
7th not only from the harrowing
testimonies of the
survivors the unmistakable proof of
Carnage and sadism left behind and the
forensic evidence taken at the
scene we know it because the asants
proudly filmed and broadcast their
barbarism the events of that day are all
but ignored in the applicant
submissions but we are compelled to
share with the court some fraction of
its
horror the largest calculated mass
murder of Jews in a single day since the
Holocaust we do so not because these
acts however sadistic and systematic
release Israel of its obligations to
uphold the law as it defends its
citizens and
territory that is
unquestionable we do so because it is
impossible to understand the armed
conflict in Gaza without appreciating
the nature of the threat that Israel is
facing and the brutality and lawlessness
of the Armed Force confronting it
in the volume of materials submitted to
members of the court access has been
provided to a portion of the raw footage
for separate
screening but I am obliged to put before
the court today some small fragment of
the scenes of unfathomable cruelty that
took place in hundreds of locations on
that horrible
day Johnny simantov a wheat farmer and
his wife
Tamar an act activist for women's rights
lived in kibutz near
Oz when the rocket fire started they hid
in the safe room with their
four-year-old son om and their
six-year-old Twins arbel and
shakar during their Rampage Kamas
militant set fire to their
house Johnny texted his sister
Renee they're here they're burning us we
suffocating the whole family was burned
alive
to
ashes making DNA identification
especially
difficult a survivor of the Nova Music
Festival Massacre testified to police to
witnessing a Kamas militant brutally
raping a young woman as another militant
cut off her breast and toyed with it a
second militant then raped her
again shooting her in the head while
still inside
her
in one video recorded by a home
surveillance system a Kamas militant
throws a grenade into a safe room where
a father and his two sons have rushed to
hide the father is killed the two sons
are injured and bleeding as a militant
pulls them into the living
room one child can be heard screaming to
his
brother why am I
alive I can't see anything they're going
to kill
us the militant casually opens the
fridge takes out a bottle and
drinks and then there is this recording
from
kib
as
stated none of these atrocities absolve
Israel of its obligations under the
law but they do enable the court to
appreciate Three core aspects of the
present proceedings which the applicant
has obscured from
view
first that if there have been acts that
make be characterized as
genocidal then they have been
perpetrated against
Israel if there is a concern about the
obligations of States under the genocide
convention then it is in relation to
their
responsibilities to act against hamas's
proudly declared agenda of
annihilation which is not a secret and
is not in
doubt the annihilationist language of
hamas's chapter is repeated regularly by
its leaders with the goal in the words
of one member of hamas's political
Bureau of the cleansing of Palestine of
the filth of the
Jews it is expressed no less chillingly
in the words of senioras member razi
hammad to Lebanese television on October
24th
2023 who refers to the October 7th
attacks what Hamas calls the acts of
flag as
follows in the continuation of this
interview Kamas is asked kamad is
asked does that mean the annihilation of
Israel yes of course he says the
existence of Israel is
illogical and then he says nobody should
blame us for the things we do on October
7th October 10th October 1 millionth
everything we do is Justified end
quote given that on October 7th before
any military response by Israel South
Africa issued an official statement
blaming Israel for quote the recent
conation essentially blaming Israel for
the murder of its own
citizens one wonders whether the
applicant
agrees second it is in response to the
slaughter of October 7th which Kamas
openly vows to repeat and to the ongoing
attacks against it from Gaza that Israel
has the inherent right to take all
legitimate measures to defend its
citizens and secure the release of the
hostages this right is also not in doubt
it has been acknowledged by States
across the
world astonishingly the court has been
requested to indicate a provisional
measure calling on Israel to suspend its
military
operations but this amounts to an
attempt to deny Israel its ability to
meet its obligations to the defense of
its citizens to the hostages and to over
110,000 internally displaced Israelis
unable to safely return to their
homes the applicant in its submissions
to the court makes almost no mention of
the ongoing humanitarian suffering of
Israel's citizens at the hands of Hamas
and treat the hostages still held in
captivity as barely an
afterthought but is there a reason these
people on your screen are Unworthy of
protection
Hamas is not a party to these
proceedings the applicant by its request
seeks to thwart Israel's inherent right
to defend itself to let Hamas not just
get away with its murder literally but
render Israel defenseless as Hamas
continues to commit
it yesterday Council for the applicant
made the astonishing claim that Israel
was Den denied this right and as a
matter of fact should not be able to
protect itself from hamas's
attacks but allow me to draw attention
to these words written by Professor
vaugh
low quote the source of the attack
whether a state or non-state actor is
irrelevant to the existence of the right
to Defense Force may be used to avert a
threat because no one and no state is
obliged by law passively to suffer the
delivery of an
attack Israel agrees with these words as
I suspect with any sovereign
state if the claim of the applicant now
is that in the armed conflict between
Israel and Hamas Israel must be denied
the ability to defend its
citizens then the Absurd upshot of South
Africa's argument is this under the
guise of the allegation against Israel
of genocide this court is asked to call
for an end to operations against the
ongoing attacks of an organization that
pursues an actual genocidal agenda an
organization that has violated every
past ceasefire and used it to rearm and
plan new
atrocities an organization that declares
its unequivocal resolve to advance its
genocidal
plans that is an unconscionable
request and it is respectfully submitted
that it cannot
stand third the court is informed of the
events of October 7th because if there
are any provisional measures that should
appropriately be indicated here they are
indeed with respect to South Africa it
is a matter of public record that South
Africa enjoys close relations with Hamas
despite its formal recognition as a
terrorist organization by numerous
States across the
world these relations have continued
unabated even after the October 7th
atrocities South Africa has long hosted
and celebrated its ties with Kamas
figures including a senior Kamas
delegation that incredibly visited the
country for a quote solidarity Gathering
just weeks after the
massacre in justifying instituting
proceedings South Africa makes much of
its obligations under the genocide
convention it seems fitting then that it
be instructed to comply with those
obligations
itself to end its own language of
delegitimization of Israel's
existence end its support for Hamas and
use its influence with this
organization so that Hamas permanently
ends its campaign of genocidal Terror
and releases the
hostages Madam president members of the
Court the hostilities between Israel and
Hamas have exacted a terrible toll on
both Israelis and
Palestinians but any genuine effort to
understand the cause of this toll must
take account of the horrendous reality
created by Hamas within the Gaza
Strip when Israel withdrew all its
soldiers and civilians from Gaza in 200
2005 it left a coastal area with the
potential to become a political and
economic success
story hamas's violent Takeover in 2007
changed all
that over the past 16 years of its rule
Hamas has smuggled countless weapons
into Gaza and has diverted billions in
international Aid not to build schools
hospitals or shelters to protect its
population from the dangers of the
attacks it launched against Israel Over
many years but rather to turn massive
swaths of the civilian infrastructure
into perhaps the most sophisticated
terrorist stronghold in the history of
urban
Warfare remarkably Council for the
applicant described the suffering in
Gaza as unparalleled and
unprecedented as if they are unaware of
the utter Devastation rought in wars
that have raged just in recent Years
Around the World sadly
the civilian suffering in Warfare is not
unique to
Gaza what is actually unparalleled and
unprecedented is the degree to which
Hamas has entrenched itself within the
civilian
population and made Palestinian civilian
suffering an integral part of its
strategy Hamas has systematically and
unlawfully embedded its military
operations militants and assets
throughout Gaza within and beneath
densely populated civilian areas it has
built an extensive Warren of underground
tunnels for its leaders and Fighters
sever several hundred miles in length
throughout the strip with thousands of
access points and terrorist hubs located
in homes mosques un facilities schools
and perhaps most shockingly
hospitals this is not an occasional
tactic
it is an integrated pre-planned
extensive and abhorent method of
warfare purposely and methodically
murdering civilians firing Rockets
indiscriminately systematically using
civilians sensitive sites and civilian
objects as Shields stealing and hoarding
humanitarian
supplies allowing those under its
control to suffer so that it can fuel
its Fighters and terrorist
campaign the appalling suffering of
civilians both Israeli and Palestinian
is first and foremost the result of this
despicable
strategy the horrible cost of Hamas not
only failing to protect its civilians
but actively sacrificing them for its
own propaganda and Military
benefit and if Hamas abandons this
strategy releases the hos ages lays down
its arms the hostilities and suffering
would
end Madame President members of the
Court there are many distortions in the
applicant submission to the court but as
shall be demonstrated by Council there
is one that overshadows them all in the
applicant's telling it is almost as if
there is no intensive armed conflict
taking place between two parties at all
No Grave threat to Israel and its
citizens only an Israeli assault on
Gaza the court is told of widespread
damage to buildings but it is not told
for example how many thousands of those
buildings were destroyed because they
were booby trapped by Hamas how many
became legitimate targets because of the
strategy of using civilian objects and
protected sites for military
purposes how many many buildings were
struck by over 2,000 indiscriminate
terrorist rockets that misfired and
landed in Gaza
itself the court is told of over 23,000
casualties as the applicant repeats as
many have unverified statistics provided
by Kamas itself hardly a reliable
source every civilian casualty in this
conflict is a human tragedy that demands
our
compassion but the court is not told how
many thousands of casualties are in fact
militants how many were killed by Kamas
fire how many were civilians taking
direct part in
hostilities and just how many are the
result of legitimate and proportionate
use of force against military targets
even if
tragic and the court is also told of the
dire human itarian situation in Gaza but
it is not told of hamas's practice of
stealing and hoarding Aid it is not told
of the extensive Israeli efforts to
mitigate civilian harm of the
humanitarian initiatives being
undertaken to enable the flow of
supplies and provide medical attention
to the
wounded the applicant purports to
describe the reality in
Gaza but it is as if Hamas and its total
contempt for cilian life just do not
exist as a direct cause of that
reality Hamas is widely estimated to
have over 30,000
Fighters and is known to bring miners no
older than 15 or 16 into its
ranks they are coming for us but in
South Africa's telling they have all but
disappeared there are no explosives in
mosques and schools and children's
bedrooms no ambulances used to transport
Fighters no tunnels and terrorist hubs
under sensitive sites no Fighters
dressed as civilians no Comm
commandeering of Aid trucks no firing
from civilian homes un facilities and
even safe zones there is only Israel
acting in
Gaza the applicant is essentially asking
the court to substitute the lens of
armed conflict between a state and a
lawless terrorist
organization with the lens of a So-Cal
genocide of a State against a civilian
population but it is not offering the
court a lens it is offering it a
blindfold Madame President members of
the
Court the nightmarish environment
created by Hamas has been concealed by
the applicant but it is the environment
in which Israel is compelled to operate
Israel is committed as it must be to
comply with the law but it does so in
the face of hamas's utter contempt for
the
law it is committed as it must be to
demonstrate
Humanity but it does so in the face of
hamas's utter in
humanity as will be presented by Council
these commitments are a matter of of
Express government policy military
directives and
procedures they are also an expression
of Israel's core
values and as shall also be shown they
are matched by genuine measures on the
ground to mitigate civilian harm under
the unprecedented and excruciating
conditions of warfare created by
Kamas it is plainly
inconceivable under the terms set by
this very court that a state conducting
itself in this way
in these
circumstances may be said to be engaged
in genocide not even Prima
fasi the key component of genocide the
intention to destroy a people in whole
or in part is totally
lacking what Israel seeks by operating
in Gaza is not to destroy a people but
to protect the people its people who are
under attack on Multi multiple fronts
and to do so in accordance with the law
even as it faces a heartless enemy
determined to use that very commitment
against
it as will be detailed by Council
Israel's lawful AIMS in Gaza have been
clearly and repeatedly articulated by
its prime minister its defense minister
and all members of the war
cabinet as the Prime Minister reiterated
yet yet again this week Israel is
fighting Hamas terrorists not the
civilian
population Israel aims to ensure that
Gaza can never again be used as a
Launchpad for
terrorism as the Prime Minister
reaffirms Israel seeks neither to
permanently occupy Gaza or to displace
its civilian
population it wants to create a better
future for Israelis and Palestinians
alike where both can live in peace
Thrive and prosper and where the
Palestinian people have all the power to
govern themselves but not the capacity
to threaten
Israel if there is a threat to that
Vision if there is a humanitarian threat
to the Palestinian civilians of Gaza it
stems primarily from the fact that they
have lived under the control of a
genocidal terrorist
organization that has total disregard
for their life and
well-being that organization
Hamas and its sponsors seek to deny
Israel Palestinians and Arab states
across the region the ability to advance
a common future of Peace coexistence
security and
prosperity Israel is in a war of defense
against Hamas not against the
Palestinian people to ensure that they
do not
succeed in these
circumstances there can hardly be a
charge more false and more malevolent
than the allegation against Israel of
genocide the applicant has regrettably
engaged in a transparent attempt to
abuse the convention's compulsory
jurisdiction mechanism and in particular
the provisional measures phase of
proceedings to bring under the purview
of the Court matters over which in truth
it lacks
jurisdiction Madam president members of
the Court the genocide convention was a
solemn promise made to the Jewish people
and to All Peoples of never
again the applicant in effect invites
the court to betray that
promise if the term genocide can be so
diminished in the way that it
Advocates if provisional measures can be
triggered in the way that it suggests
the convention becomes an agre press's
Charter it will reward indeed encourage
the terrorists Who hide behind civilians
at the expense of the states seeking to
defend against
them to maintain the Integrity of the
genocide
convention to maintain its promise and
the Court's own role as its Guardian it
is respectfully submitted that the
application and request should be
dismissed for what they are
a
liel designed to deny Israel the right
to defend itself according to the law
from the unprecedented Terrorist on
Onslaught it continues to
face and to free the
1036 hostages Hamas still
holds I thank you for your kind
attention may I ask Madame President
that you call Professor Shaw to the
podium